The objective of my capstone is to predict churn for my employer. They want to know which audience is most likely to churn and at what point can we intervene with marketing to keep those customers, and how much in to invest in that marketing. I was given this mission early on during my onboarding as one of the critical functions of this newly stood-up Business Intelligence unit. Building a model which predicts churn is important and an endeavor undertaken by entities across many domains. However, it is still a super vague question, because there are varying definitions for 'churn' and even at that, people will 'churn' for different reasons. One needs to define churn and the type of churn before we begin to look for its underlying factors. I have spoken to various individuals and each has given me their interpretation on these questions and how to approach them. Ultimately, my manager has given me complete ownership over this investigation. Moreover, my clients are the COO and Product Manager for Lifeline Phones program who're using this research to minimize churn. To create a practical model, i will spend a good deal of time in the EDA phase looking at relationships between customer factors. I will be pulling customer data from our AWS Redshift database using SQL as well as Tableau for some of the EDA investigation. At my disposal, I have the following tables and factors: Customer table with dob/age, firstname/gender, email(has email), location; device table with device data, a daily usage table with usage data, Lifeline Program table with LL Status (i.e. type of churn), lifeline_qualifying_program (I.e. Gov't benefit program), NLAD registration, IEH (Head of household), Income data; Master table with Master, Retailer, Distributor, and Carrier data ; CGM table with application data, as well call center cdr data with queue hold time , talk_time, customer disposition. Some outside resources we can incorporate include Census data to help classify customers as rural vs urban, as well as an R package which classifies first names into gender. I will begin EDA where I'll look at the available customer characteristics to gauge correlations and distributions. During this stage, I hope to filter out any factors which don't hold explanatory power in tenure, or Expirations/Benefit ports. With my current understanding, the best approach is a multilayered model approach where approach 1 - a log MLR approach- is in the EDA. Once we can get our best predictors( and a Minimal Viable product), we can then apply approach 2 to cluster our customers, and approach 3 to predict how long they will remain with us given marketing 'treatments'. I believe that usage data will play a major role in this analysis, and prior analysis found Age to be positively correlated with tenure. I will aim to deliver a model and EDA analyses via an R Markdown document for application purposes, along with a white paper and ppt to explain this process. The analysis done in Tableau and code will be incorporated into white paper with high level details going into a powerpoint.  
